bin/README.md, before:

# How do I use some of these scripts?

Table of Contents

- [man2pdf](#man2pdf)
- [clusterssh helper scripts](#clusterssh-helper-scripts)
- [wasted-ram-updates.py](#wasted-ram-updatespy)
- [Mass GPG encrypted file management](#mass-gpg-encrypted-file-management)
- [Jenkins Productivity Scripts](#jenkins-productivity-scripts)
- [GitHub Productivity Scripts](#github-productivity-scripts)
- [Counting lines of code](#counting-lines-of-code)

----
# man2pdf

[man2pdf](man2pdf) is a simple script which converts man pages to PDF format.
This is useful for reading man pages on the go in an e-book reader.  The
permissions of the script should be 755.

Example, converting the bash man page into PDF.

    chmod 755 man2pdf
    ./man2pdf bash

----
# clusterssh helper scripts

I use the following helper scripts to maintain the `/etc/clusters` file:

- `knownhosts.sh`
- `missing_from_all_clusters.sh`
- `servercount`
- `sort_clusters`

I maintain my `/etc/clusters` file with a standardized naming convention.  The
first line has an `All_clusters` alias.  Its only purpose is to be an alias for
all aliases in the `/etc/clusters` file.  From there every alias starts with one
of two standardized prefixes: `cluster_` or `host_`.

Here is a sample `/etc/clusters` file using that naming convention.

    All_clusters cluster_website cluster_dns host_Config_management

    cluster_website host1.domain.com host2.domain.com host3.domain.com

    cluster_dns ns1.domain.com ns2.domain.com

    host_Config_management someconfigmanagement.domain.com

`knownhosts.sh` - This script reads stdin a list of host names, queries the ssh
fingerprint, and checks to see if that known host exists in
`~/.ssh/known_hosts`.  If it exists then it outputs nothing.  If there's any
missing (or possibly incorrect) then it will output only the problem hosts.  If
no hosts have any problems then it exits with a proper success exit code.  This
can be used with `servercount`.

`missing_from_all_clusters.sh` - This goes through the `/etc/clusters` file for
all of the aliases and checks to make sure that all aliases are added to
`All_clusters`.  If there is no alias then it will output the problem entry.
There will be no output if all entries are properly accounted for.

`servercount` - This goes through the `/etc/clusters` file and displays a list
of host names only (with no aliases).  This will consist of one host per line.

`sort_clusters` - As you keep adding aliases to `/etc/clusters` there becomes a
need to alphabetically sort the aliases in the file.  This will sort the
aliases.  It also sorts the list of aliases on the `All_clusters` line at the
top of the file.

### Example usage

Get a head count of the number of servers in the clusters file.

    servercount | wc -l

Check that there aren't any bad `known_hosts` fingerprints for clusters host
names.

    servercount | knownhosts.sh

Generage a list of ip addresses associated with all of the hosts.

    servercount | while read server;do dig +short ${server};done
    servercount | while read server;do echo "$(dig +short ${server}) ${server}";done

The remaining scripts are fairly standalone.

----
# wasted-ram-updates.py

Ever hear about Linux being able to update without ever needing to be restarted
(with exception for a few critical packages)?  Ever wonder how to figure out
which services need to actually be restarted after a large update of hundreds of
packages?  With `wasted-ram-updates.py` you no longer need to wonder.

`wasted-ram-updates.py` helps to resolve these questions by showing which
running processes are using files in memory that have been deleted on disk.
This lets you know that there is likely an outdated library being used.  If you
restart the daemon associated with this process then it will use the updated
copy of the library.

### List of packages which require a restart

Over time I've encountered a small list of critical packages which require a
restart of the Linux OS.  Here's a non-comprehensive list of which I'm aware.
Feel free to open an [issue](https://github.com/sag47/drexel-university/issues)
letting me know of another package which requires a system reboot.

- dbus (used by `/sbin/init` which is pid 1)
- glibc
- kernel

Other than that you should be able to simply restart the associated service.

_Please note: some programs regularly create and delete temporary files which
will show up in `wasted-ram-updates.py`.  This is normal and does not require a
service restart for this case._

### Example usage

Just display an overall summary

    wasted-ram-updates.py summary

Organize the output by deleted file handle (I've found this to be less useful
for accomplishing a system update).

    wasted-ram-updates.py

Organize the output by process ID and show a heirarchy of deleted file handles
as children to the PIDs.  This is the most useful command for determining which
services to restart.

    wasted-ram-updates.py pids

----
# Mass GPG encrypted file management

These scripts assume a basic knowledge and usage of GPG.  These scripts automate
encrypting files.

I've written a set of scripts for massively managing gpg encrypted files.  In a
nutshell, these scripts will encrypt all files in a directory using GPG.  It
will encrypt individual files (e.g. two individual files result in two encrypted
files).  These scripts were written as a solution to store encrypted files in
Dropbox.

_Please note that these scripts only preserve confidentiality of contents of
files.  The file names will have a similar name as when they were unencrypted so
that files can be easily searched using an indexer._


### Encryption related scripts

- `gpg_encrypt_individual_files.sh` - encrypts all unencrypted files
  individually.  Generates a `sha1sum.txt` file in each directory which is the
  checksum of encrypted files in said directory.
- `gpg_decrypt_individual_files.sh` - decrypts all individually encrypted files.
- `gpg_sign_sha1sums.sh` - Digitally sign all sha1sum.txt files.  Because the
  contents of the sha1sum.txt file is the hash of all encrypted files this
  essentially guaruntees the signature of every file.

### Validation and verification related scripts

- `gpg_validate_sha1sums.sh` - validates all `sha1sum.txt.sig` signatures.  If
  the contents of any `sha1sum.txt` file has changed then signature validation
  will fail.  Failure means maliciously modified or corrupted `sha1sum.txt`
  file.
- `gpg_verify_checksums.sh` - Runs a checksum verification of all encrypted
  files using the `sha1sum.txt` file as a checksum reference.  If the contents
  of any encrypted file has changed then checksum verification will fail.
  Failure means maliciously modified or corrupted encrypted files.
- `gpg_fix_missing_sha1sums.sh` - Removes missing files from all `sha1sum.txt`
  files and adds missing encrypted files from `sha1sum.txt` files.  This is for
  renaming and moving files without decrypting them.

### Example usage

Encrypt all files in the current directory and sign the resulting `sha1sum.txt`
files.

    gpg_encrypt_individual_files.sh ./
    gpg_sign_sha1sums.sh ./

Rename an encrypted file and update the checksums and signature of the
`sha1sum.txt` file.

    mv oldname.txt.gpg newname.txt.gpg
    gpg_fix_missing_sha1sums.sh ./

Validate and verify all encrypted files.

    gpg_validate_sha1sums.sh ./
    gpg_verify_checksums.sh ./

----
# Jenkins Productivity Scripts

### Introduction

I have a set of Jenkins productivity scripts which allow me to keep a productive
workflow.  An interesting way I use my scripts is to use my speakers to output
audio when things like a Jenkins reboot is done or to wait for a job to finish.
By outputing audio to my speakers I don't have to "worry".  No need to keep
checking my builds but instead can let automation regularly check them and
audibly tell me when their finished as well as their status.  All of my scripts
are cross platform for Unix/Linux/BSD flavors.

Interesting tasks I regularly do:

- Wait for a job to finish.  It could even be a pipeline and prompt me when it
  is waiting for input.
- Wait for Jenkins to finish starting up after a reboot.
- Execute script console scripts.
- Clean up jobs by deleting them.

Here's a list of some scripts and what they do:

- [`say_job_done.sh`](say_job_done.sh) - not really a Jenkins specific script.
  It will output "Job Done" to my speakers.  If you pass it an argument then it
  will say what you pass as an argument.  Other productivity scripts depend on
  this one.
- [`jenkins-call-url`](jenkins-call-url) - It makes calling Jenkins URLs easy
  (for doing things like web API calls).  Supports credentials Jenkins CSRF
  protection and common HTTP methods like HEAD, GET, and POST which are used by
  the web API.
- [`jenkins_script_console.sh`](jenkins_script_console.sh) - Utilizes
  `jenkins-call-url` to execute script console scripts.
- [`jenkins_wait_job.sh`](jenkins_wait_job.sh) - Utilizes `jenkins-call-url` and
  `say_job_done.sh` to determine when a job is done or ready for user
  interaction.  It waits for jobs to finish.
- [`jenkins_wait_reboot_done.sh`](jenkins_wait_reboot_done.sh) - Utilizes
  `say_job_done.sh`.  This script will wait for a Jenkins reboot to finish and
  alert when it is available and ready to use.

### Setting up

If you're on Mac then `say` command is already available for audio output.  On
Linux, I use the `espeak` command, instead.  You may need to install the espeak
command.

`jenkins_script_console.sh` and `jenkins_wait_reboot_done.sh` utilize a settings
file stored in `$HOME/.jenkins-bashrc`.  Here's what my `.jenkins-bashrc` looks
like.

    if [ -z "$JENKINS_WEB" ]; then
      export JENKINS_WEB=https://build.gimp.org/
    fi
    if [ -z "$JENKINS_WAIT_REBOOT_DEFAULT" ]; then
      export JENKINS_WAIT_REBOOT_DEFAULT=https://build.gimp.org/
    fi

`jenkins-call-url` has features for speeding up and simplifying requests by
storing HTTP headers in a JSON file.  I tend to add the following to my
`.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` (depending on my platform).  This will store
headers used such as the CSRF crumb, authorization (base64 encoded credentials),
and other headers can be stored and loaded for more quickly executing scripts.

    export JENKINS_HEADERS_FILE="${HOME}/.jenkins-headers.json"

If you encounter TLS errors then you can create a certification chain containing
the root and intermedaite certificate authority X.509 certificates stored in PEM
format.  Then you can set `JENKINS_CA_FILE` so SSL is validated with your
Jenkins server.

If your Jenkins server requires authentication then you can set the
`JENKINS_USER` and `JENKINS_PASSWORD` environment variables.  If you set
`JENKINS_HEADERS_FILE` then you only need to do this once because credentials
will persist to the headers file as an HTTP authorization basic header.

### Using Authentication

Assuming you set `JENKINS_WEB`, `JENKINS_HEADERS_FILE`, and maybe even
`JENKINS_CA_FILE` from setup section.  The first thing you should do is create a
headers file configured for you to interact with Jenkins.

    JENKINS_USER=username JENKINS_PASWORD=password jenkins-call-url -a -m HEAD -vv https://jenkins.example.com/

If you ever restart Jenkins you'll need to resolve the CSRF crumb again.

    jenkins-call-url --force-crumb -m HEAD -vv https://jenkins.example.com/

    #alternatively automatically resolving the Jenkins URL will get a new crumb
    jenkins-call-url -a -m HEAD -vv https://jenkins.example.com/


### Usage

From here on out, I'm going to assume you either didn't use
`JENKINS_USER`/`JENKINS_PASSWORD` or that your Jenkins server doesn't require
authentication to interact with certain parts.  The example I'm going to use is
a server I maintain, the [GIMP project][gimp] Jenkins server;
https://build.gimp.org/ (publicly available).  The following are some examples
of how I use these scripts.

Wait for a job to finish and report its status via audio to speakers.

    jenkins_wait_job.sh https://build.gimp.org/job/gimp-master/lastBuild/

Announce when a Jenkins reboot is done via audio to speakers.

    jenkins_wait_reboot_done.sh https://build.gimp.org/

### Advanced usage

Now let's use a hypothetical Jenkins server which requires authentication and
you're an admin.

Script console script examples:

- [My personal scripts][jenkins-script-console-scripts].
- [Jenkins community scripts][jenkins-scripts].

Calling script console scripts as an admin.

    jenkins_script_console.sh kill-all-day-old-builds.groovy

Using [`jq`][jq] to get a list of job URLs associated with a view.

    jenkins-call-url https://build.gimp.org/view/GIMP/api/json | jq -r '.jobs[].url'

Using [`jq`][jq] and [`xargs`][xargs] to get a list of job URLs associated with
a view and then use them to delete all jobs in that view.

    #delete all jobs in a view
    jenkins-call-url https://build.gimp.org/view/GIMP/api/json |
      jq -r '.jobs[].url' |
      xargs -n1 -I '{}' -- jenkins-call-url -m POST '{}doDelete'

    #now delete the view
    jenkins-call-url -m POST https://build.gimp.org/view/GIMP/doDelete

There's many ways these scripts can be used to interact with the Jenkins API for
automation.  These are just a few examples.

# GitHub Productivity Scripts

### Introduction

These scripts are meant to be run from my laptop and do interesting things like
yell at me through my laptop speakers that something is available or changed on
GitHub in which I'm interested.

### Setting up

Set a GitHub personal access token with repo scope in the following environment
variable.

    export GITHUB_TOKEN="<your token>"

Make sure this `bin/` directory is a part of your `$PATH`.

### Usage

- [`say_job_done.sh`](say_job_done.sh) - not really a GitHub specific script.
  It will output "Job Done" to my speakers.  If you pass it an argument then it
  will say what you pass as an argument.  Other productivity scripts depend on
  this one.
- [`github_wait_mergeable.sh`](github_wait_mergeable.sh) - Will monitor a pull
  request and yell at you through your laptop speakers when it is ready to
  merge.  The script will hang in the foreground and exit when a pull request is
  ready to merge.

Using `github_wait_mergeable.sh`.

    github_wait_mergeable.sh https://github.com/yourorg/yourproject/pull/123

# Counting lines of code

- [`get-bare-repository-lines.sh`](get-bare-repository-lines.sh) - Walks through
  a directory containing an archive of bare Git repositories.  It will output
  the repository name, if it has Jervis integration, aand how many lines of
  code.
- [`get-repo-name.sh`](get-repo-name.sh) - Gets the repository name assuming the
  current working directory is a bare repository.
- [`get-repository-lines-added.sh`](get-repository-lines-added.sh) - Gets the
  total number of lines added to a repository since the initial commit.
- [`is-jervis-repo.sh`](is-jervis-repo.sh) - Checks if the current repository
  has a Jervis integration.  Learn more [about
  Jervis](https://github.com/samrocketman/jervis).
- [`get-line-count-summary.sh`](get-line-count-summary.sh) - Summarize line
  count results from a bare repository archive.

Get total lines of code added to a single repository.

    get-repository-lines-added.sh

Get specific lines of code added to a single repository.

    get-repository-lines-added.sh 'java,py,groovy,js'

Query a directory containing an archive of bare repositories for total lines of
code.

    get-bare-repository-lines.sh some-directory | get-line-count-summary.sh

Query a directory containing multiple subdirectories of bare repositories.
Limit the line count to specific file types.

```bash
export SOURCE_FILE_TYPES='java,py,groovy,js'
for x in *; do
    echo "$x";
    get-bare-repository-lines.sh "$x" | get-line-count-summary.sh;
    echo;
done
```


[gimp]: https://www.gimp.org/
[jenkins-script-console-scripts]: https://github.com/samrocketman/jenkins-script-console-scripts
[jenkins-scripts]: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins-scripts
[jq]: https://stedolan.github.io/jq/
[xargs]: http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/en/man1/xargs.1.html

Commit message:

Refactor with jenkins_call.sh
Enables me to run my scripts on both new and old operating systems where
Python 2, Python 3, or both may be present.

bin/README.md, after:

# How do I use some of these scripts?

Table of Contents

- [man2pdf](#man2pdf)
- [clusterssh helper scripts](#clusterssh-helper-scripts)
- [wasted-ram-updates.py](#wasted-ram-updatespy)
- [Mass GPG encrypted file management](#mass-gpg-encrypted-file-management)
- [Jenkins Productivity Scripts](#jenkins-productivity-scripts)
- [GitHub Productivity Scripts](#github-productivity-scripts)
- [Counting lines of code](#counting-lines-of-code)

----
# man2pdf

[man2pdf](man2pdf) is a simple script which converts man pages to PDF format.
This is useful for reading man pages on the go in an e-book reader.  The
permissions of the script should be 755.

Example, converting the bash man page into PDF.

    chmod 755 man2pdf
    ./man2pdf bash

----
# clusterssh helper scripts

I use the following helper scripts to maintain the `/etc/clusters` file:

- `knownhosts.sh`
- `missing_from_all_clusters.sh`
- `servercount`
- `sort_clusters`

I maintain my `/etc/clusters` file with a standardized naming convention.  The
first line has an `All_clusters` alias.  Its only purpose is to be an alias for
all aliases in the `/etc/clusters` file.  From there every alias starts with one
of two standardized prefixes: `cluster_` or `host_`.

Here is a sample `/etc/clusters` file using that naming convention.

    All_clusters cluster_website cluster_dns host_Config_management

    cluster_website host1.domain.com host2.domain.com host3.domain.com

    cluster_dns ns1.domain.com ns2.domain.com

    host_Config_management someconfigmanagement.domain.com

`knownhosts.sh` - This script reads stdin a list of host names, queries the ssh
fingerprint, and checks to see if that known host exists in
`~/.ssh/known_hosts`.  If it exists then it outputs nothing.  If there's any
missing (or possibly incorrect) then it will output only the problem hosts.  If
no hosts have any problems then it exits with a proper success exit code.  This
can be used with `servercount`.

`missing_from_all_clusters.sh` - This goes through the `/etc/clusters` file for
all of the aliases and checks to make sure that all aliases are added to
`All_clusters`.  If there is no alias then it will output the problem entry.
There will be no output if all entries are properly accounted for.

`servercount` - This goes through the `/etc/clusters` file and displays a list
of host names only (with no aliases).  This will consist of one host per line.

`sort_clusters` - As you keep adding aliases to `/etc/clusters` there becomes a
need to alphabetically sort the aliases in the file.  This will sort the
aliases.  It also sorts the list of aliases on the `All_clusters` line at the
top of the file.

### Example usage

Get a head count of the number of servers in the clusters file.

    servercount | wc -l

Check that there aren't any bad `known_hosts` fingerprints for clusters host
names.

    servercount | knownhosts.sh

Generage a list of ip addresses associated with all of the hosts.

    servercount | while read server;do dig +short ${server};done
    servercount | while read server;do echo "$(dig +short ${server}) ${server}";done

The remaining scripts are fairly standalone.

----
# wasted-ram-updates.py

Ever hear about Linux being able to update without ever needing to be restarted
(with exception for a few critical packages)?  Ever wonder how to figure out
which services need to actually be restarted after a large update of hundreds of
packages?  With `wasted-ram-updates.py` you no longer need to wonder.

`wasted-ram-updates.py` helps to resolve these questions by showing which
running processes are using files in memory that have been deleted on disk.
This lets you know that there is likely an outdated library being used.  If you
restart the daemon associated with this process then it will use the updated
copy of the library.

### List of packages which require a restart

Over time I've encountered a small list of critical packages which require a
restart of the Linux OS.  Here's a non-comprehensive list of which I'm aware.
Feel free to open an [issue](https://github.com/sag47/drexel-university/issues)
letting me know of another package which requires a system reboot.

- dbus (used by `/sbin/init` which is pid 1)
- glibc
- kernel

Other than that you should be able to simply restart the associated service.

_Please note: some programs regularly create and delete temporary files which
will show up in `wasted-ram-updates.py`.  This is normal and does not require a
service restart for this case._

### Example usage

Just display an overall summary

    wasted-ram-updates.py summary

Organize the output by deleted file handle (I've found this to be less useful
for accomplishing a system update).

    wasted-ram-updates.py

Organize the output by process ID and show a heirarchy of deleted file handles
as children to the PIDs.  This is the most useful command for determining which
services to restart.

    wasted-ram-updates.py pids

----
# Mass GPG encrypted file management

These scripts assume a basic knowledge and usage of GPG.  These scripts automate
encrypting files.

I've written a set of scripts for massively managing gpg encrypted files.  In a
nutshell, these scripts will encrypt all files in a directory using GPG.  It
will encrypt individual files (e.g. two individual files result in two encrypted
files).  These scripts were written as a solution to store encrypted files in
Dropbox.

_Please note that these scripts only preserve confidentiality of contents of
files.  The file names will have a similar name as when they were unencrypted so
that files can be easily searched using an indexer._


### Encryption related scripts

- `gpg_encrypt_individual_files.sh` - encrypts all unencrypted files
  individually.  Generates a `sha1sum.txt` file in each directory which is the
  checksum of encrypted files in said directory.
- `gpg_decrypt_individual_files.sh` - decrypts all individually encrypted files.
- `gpg_sign_sha1sums.sh` - Digitally sign all sha1sum.txt files.  Because the
  contents of the sha1sum.txt file is the hash of all encrypted files this
  essentially guaruntees the signature of every file.

### Validation and verification related scripts

- `gpg_validate_sha1sums.sh` - validates all `sha1sum.txt.sig` signatures.  If
  the contents of any `sha1sum.txt` file has changed then signature validation
  will fail.  Failure means maliciously modified or corrupted `sha1sum.txt`
  file.
- `gpg_verify_checksums.sh` - Runs a checksum verification of all encrypted
  files using the `sha1sum.txt` file as a checksum reference.  If the contents
  of any encrypted file has changed then checksum verification will fail.
  Failure means maliciously modified or corrupted encrypted files.
- `gpg_fix_missing_sha1sums.sh` - Removes missing files from all `sha1sum.txt`
  files and adds missing encrypted files from `sha1sum.txt` files.  This is for
  renaming and moving files without decrypting them.

### Example usage

Encrypt all files in the current directory and sign the resulting `sha1sum.txt`
files.

    gpg_encrypt_individual_files.sh ./
    gpg_sign_sha1sums.sh ./

Rename an encrypted file and update the checksums and signature of the
`sha1sum.txt` file.

    mv oldname.txt.gpg newname.txt.gpg
    gpg_fix_missing_sha1sums.sh ./

Validate and verify all encrypted files.

    gpg_validate_sha1sums.sh ./
    gpg_verify_checksums.sh ./

----
# Jenkins Productivity Scripts

### Introduction

I have a set of Jenkins productivity scripts which allow me to keep a productive
workflow.  An interesting way I use my scripts is to use my speakers to output
audio when things like a Jenkins reboot is done or to wait for a job to finish.
By outputing audio to my speakers I don't have to "worry".  No need to keep
checking my builds but instead can let automation regularly check them and
audibly tell me when their finished as well as their status.  All of my scripts
are cross platform for Unix/Linux/BSD flavors.

Interesting tasks I regularly do:

- Wait for a job to finish.  It could even be a pipeline and prompt me when it
  is waiting for input.
- Wait for Jenkins to finish starting up after a reboot.
- Execute script console scripts.
- Clean up jobs by deleting them.

Here's a list of some scripts and what they do:

- `jenkins_call.sh` - All scripts rely on `jenkins_call.sh`.  This serves as an
  entrypoint for `jenkins-call-url` to provide widest range of compatibility
  with different operating systems which might have only Python 2.7, Python 3,
  or both.
  - [`jenkins-call-url`](jenkins-call-url) - For Python 3.  It makes calling
    Jenkins URLs easy (for doing things like web API calls).  Supports
    credentials Jenkins CSRF protection and common HTTP methods like HEAD, GET,
    and POST which are used by the web API.
  - [`jenkins-call-url-2.7`](jenkins-call-url-2.7) - For Python 2.7.  Same as
    `jenkins-call-url` with the same options and features.
- [`say_job_done.sh`](say_job_done.sh) - not really a Jenkins specific script.
  It will output "Job Done" to my speakers.  If you pass it an argument then it
  will say what you pass as an argument.  Other productivity scripts depend on
  this one.
- [`jenkins_script_console.sh`](jenkins_script_console.sh) - Utilizes
  `jenkins-call-url` to execute script console scripts.
- [`jenkins_wait_job.sh`](jenkins_wait_job.sh) - Utilizes `jenkins-call-url` and
  `say_job_done.sh` to determine when a job is done or ready for user
  interaction.  It waits for jobs to finish.
- [`jenkins_wait_reboot_done.sh`](jenkins_wait_reboot_done.sh) - Utilizes
  `say_job_done.sh`.  This script will wait for a Jenkins reboot to finish and
  alert when it is available and ready to use.

### Setting up

If you're on Mac then `say` command is already available for audio output.  On
Linux, I use the `espeak` command, instead.  You may need to install the espeak
command.

`jenkins_script_console.sh` and `jenkins_wait_reboot_done.sh` utilize a settings
file stored in `$HOME/.jenkins-bashrc`.  Here's what my `.jenkins-bashrc` looks
like.

    if [ -z "$JENKINS_WEB" ]; then
      export JENKINS_WEB=https://build.gimp.org/
    fi
    if [ -z "$JENKINS_WAIT_REBOOT_DEFAULT" ]; then
      export JENKINS_WAIT_REBOOT_DEFAULT=https://build.gimp.org/
    fi

`jenkins-call-url` has features for speeding up and simplifying requests by
storing HTTP headers in a JSON file.  I tend to add the following to my
`.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` (depending on my platform).  This will store
headers used such as the CSRF crumb, authorization (base64 encoded credentials),
and other headers can be stored and loaded for more quickly executing scripts.

    export JENKINS_HEADERS_FILE="${HOME}/.jenkins-headers.json"

If you encounter TLS errors then you can create a certification chain containing
the root and intermedaite certificate authority X.509 certificates stored in PEM
format.  Then you can set `JENKINS_CA_FILE` so SSL is validated with your
Jenkins server.

If your Jenkins server requires authentication then you can set the
`JENKINS_USER` and `JENKINS_PASSWORD` environment variables.  If you set
`JENKINS_HEADERS_FILE` then you only need to do this once because credentials
will persist to the headers file as an HTTP authorization basic header.

### Using Authentication

Assuming you set `JENKINS_WEB`, `JENKINS_HEADERS_FILE`, and maybe even
`JENKINS_CA_FILE` from setup section.  The first thing you should do is create a
headers file configured for you to interact with Jenkins.

    JENKINS_USER=username JENKINS_PASWORD=password jenkins-call-url -a -m HEAD -vv https://jenkins.example.com/

If you ever restart Jenkins you'll need to resolve the CSRF crumb again.

    jenkins-call-url --force-crumb -m HEAD -vv https://jenkins.example.com/

    #alternatively automatically resolving the Jenkins URL will get a new crumb
    jenkins-call-url -a -m HEAD -vv https://jenkins.example.com/


### Usage

From here on out, I'm going to assume you either didn't use
`JENKINS_USER`/`JENKINS_PASSWORD` or that your Jenkins server doesn't require
authentication to interact with certain parts.  The example I'm going to use is
a server I maintain, the [GIMP project][gimp] Jenkins server;
https://build.gimp.org/ (publicly available).  The following are some examples
of how I use these scripts.

Wait for a job to finish and report its status via audio to speakers.

    jenkins_wait_job.sh https://build.gimp.org/job/gimp-master/lastBuild/

Announce when a Jenkins reboot is done via audio to speakers.

    jenkins_wait_reboot_done.sh https://build.gimp.org/

### Advanced usage

Now let's use a hypothetical Jenkins server which requires authentication and
you're an admin.

Script console script examples:

- [My personal scripts][jenkins-script-console-scripts].
- [Jenkins community scripts][jenkins-scripts].

Calling script console scripts as an admin.

    jenkins_script_console.sh kill-all-day-old-builds.groovy

Using [`jq`][jq] to get a list of job URLs associated with a view.

    jenkins-call-url https://build.gimp.org/view/GIMP/api/json | jq -r '.jobs[].url'

Using [`jq`][jq] and [`xargs`][xargs] to get a list of job URLs associated with
a view and then use them to delete all jobs in that view.

    #delete all jobs in a view
    jenkins-call-url https://build.gimp.org/view/GIMP/api/json |
      jq -r '.jobs[].url' |
      xargs -n1 -I '{}' -- jenkins-call-url -m POST '{}doDelete'

    #now delete the view
    jenkins-call-url -m POST https://build.gimp.org/view/GIMP/doDelete

There's many ways these scripts can be used to interact with the Jenkins API for
automation.  These are just a few examples.

# GitHub Productivity Scripts

### Introduction

These scripts are meant to be run from my laptop and do interesting things like
yell at me through my laptop speakers that something is available or changed on
GitHub in which I'm interested.

### Setting up

Set a GitHub personal access token with repo scope in the following environment
variable.

    export GITHUB_TOKEN="<your token>"

Make sure this `bin/` directory is a part of your `$PATH`.

### Usage

- [`say_job_done.sh`](say_job_done.sh) - not really a GitHub specific script.
  It will output "Job Done" to my speakers.  If you pass it an argument then it
  will say what you pass as an argument.  Other productivity scripts depend on
  this one.
- [`github_wait_mergeable.sh`](github_wait_mergeable.sh) - Will monitor a pull
  request and yell at you through your laptop speakers when it is ready to
  merge.  The script will hang in the foreground and exit when a pull request is
  ready to merge.

Using `github_wait_mergeable.sh`.

    github_wait_mergeable.sh https://github.com/yourorg/yourproject/pull/123

# Counting lines of code

- [`get-bare-repository-lines.sh`](get-bare-repository-lines.sh) - Walks through
  a directory containing an archive of bare Git repositories.  It will output
  the repository name, if it has Jervis integration, aand how many lines of
  code.
- [`get-repo-name.sh`](get-repo-name.sh) - Gets the repository name assuming the
  current working directory is a bare repository.
- [`get-repository-lines-added.sh`](get-repository-lines-added.sh) - Gets the
  total number of lines added to a repository since the initial commit.
- [`is-jervis-repo.sh`](is-jervis-repo.sh) - Checks if the current repository
  has a Jervis integration.  Learn more [about
  Jervis](https://github.com/samrocketman/jervis).
- [`get-line-count-summary.sh`](get-line-count-summary.sh) - Summarize line
  count results from a bare repository archive.

Get total lines of code added to a single repository.

    get-repository-lines-added.sh

Get specific lines of code added to a single repository.

    get-repository-lines-added.sh 'java,py,groovy,js'

Query a directory containing an archive of bare repositories for total lines of
code.

    get-bare-repository-lines.sh some-directory | get-line-count-summary.sh

Query a directory containing multiple subdirectories of bare repositories.
Limit the line count to specific file types.

```bash
export SOURCE_FILE_TYPES='java,py,groovy,js'
for x in *; do
    echo "$x";
    get-bare-repository-lines.sh "$x" | get-line-count-summary.sh;
    echo;
done
```


[gimp]: https://www.gimp.org/
[jenkins-script-console-scripts]: https://github.com/samrocketman/jenkins-script-console-scripts
[jenkins-scripts]: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins-scripts
[jq]: https://stedolan.github.io/jq/
[xargs]: http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/en/man1/xargs.1.html
