README.md, before:

# home

In other words files for my `$HOME`.  This is a handy little git repository I use to track all of the files I use in day to day stuff.

## List of README files.

* [bin/README.md](bin/README.md)

Generate bullet list of readme files:

    find | grep -i readme | while read x;do readme="$(echo $x | sed 's#^\.##' | sed 's#^/##')";echo "* [$readme]($readme)";done

# ./bin/

This is user bin scripts I put in my ~/bin directory.

# ./dotfiles/

Some common dotfiles which I personally like to customize.

# vim tips

I use the following selection substitute command for converting bash variables from `$var` to `${var}`.

    :'<,'>s#$\([^0-9(\{]\{1\}[^/{} '"()\\;.|`+*-]\+\)#${\1}#g

Here's that expression broken down.

    :'<,'> - perform a task on a text selection in vim
    s# - substitute using a hash as the expression delimiter
    $ - just a plain old dollar sign with no special meaning in this context
      \( - BEGIN regex group
        [ - BEGIN character class
          ^0-9(\{ - the carat (^) states that NOT the following characters
        ]\{1\} - END character class and only one character (redundant I think)
        [ - BEGIN character class
          ^/{} '"()\\;.|`+*- - The carat at the beginning denotes NOT these characters.  The hyphen at the end is literal.
        ]\+ - END character class one or more characters
      \) - END regex group
    #${\1}#g - replace expression to act globally on the line

Commit message:

docs: README add must have packages

README.md, after:

# home

In other words files for my `$HOME`.  This is a handy little git repository I use to track all of the files I use in day to day stuff.

## List of README files.

* [bin/README.md](bin/README.md)

Generate bullet list of readme files:

    find | grep -i readme | while read x;do readme="$(echo $x | sed 's#^\.##' | sed 's#^/##')";echo "* [$readme]($readme)";done

# ./bin/

This is user bin scripts I put in my ~/bin directory.

# ./dotfiles/

Some common dotfiles which I personally like to customize.

# Package must haves

I need the following packages to be highly productive at a minimum.

```
git
screen
vim
```

# vim tips

I use the following selection substitute command for converting bash variables from `$var` to `${var}`.

    :'<,'>s#$\([^0-9(\{]\{1\}[^/{} '"()\\;.|`+*-]\+\)#${\1}#g

Here's that expression broken down.

    :'<,'> - perform a task on a text selection in vim
    s# - substitute using a hash as the expression delimiter
    $ - just a plain old dollar sign with no special meaning in this context
      \( - BEGIN regex group
        [ - BEGIN character class
          ^0-9(\{ - the carat (^) states that NOT the following characters
        ]\{1\} - END character class and only one character (redundant I think)
        [ - BEGIN character class
          ^/{} '"()\\;.|`+*- - The carat at the beginning denotes NOT these characters.  The hyphen at the end is literal.
        ]\+ - END character class one or more characters
      \) - END regex group
    #${\1}#g - replace expression to act globally on the line
